Okta email updates to the password recovery guide (#3332)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-mfa/main/nodejs/integrationsteps.md

### 1. Select the password recovery link

> First, the user selects a password recovery link located on the sign-in page. Add a link that points to the password recovery page. An example link named **Forgot password?** is shown in the following screenshot.

Reviewer: Small nit, but the link in the image actually says this:
```suggestion
First, the user selects a password recovery link located on the sign-in page. Add a link that points to the password recovery page. An example link named **Forgot your password?** is shown in the following screenshot.
```

> First, the user selects a password recovery link located on the sign-in page. Add a link that points to the password recovery page. An example link named **Forgot password?** is shown in the following screenshot.

Author: Updated based on our conversation.

![Screenshot showing a page displaying the sign-in page with a 'Forgot password?' link where users can click to reset their password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-simple-sign-on-screenshot-sign-in-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 2. Show the password recovery page

Next, show the password recovery page to the user. Create a page that accepts the account's username and includes a **Next** button that starts the recovery flow.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot showing a page displaying the reset password page that has a field to input your password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-screenshot-reset-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 3. Submit username

The user enters their username on the password recovery page and selects **Next** to start the recovery process.  At this time, call `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`, passing in the username.

```javascript
try {
  const transaction = await authClient.idx.recoverPassword({ username });
  handleTransaction({ req, res, next, authClient, transaction });
} catch (error) {
  next(error);
}
```

### 4. Display a list of available authenticators

> `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()` returns a response indicating that the next step is to select an authenticator. Specifically, `IdxTransaction` returns a `status` of `PENDING`, `nextStep.name` equal to `select-authenticator-authenticate`, and a `option` item with a `value` of `okta_email` in the `nextstep.inputs[n].options` array.

Reviewer: A list might help here.
```suggestion
`OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()` returns a response indicating that the next step is to select an authenticator. Specifically, `IdxTransaction` returns:
* a `status` of `PENDING`
* a `nextStep.name` equal to `select-authenticator-authenticate`
* an `option` item with a `value` of `okta_email` in the `nextstep.inputs[n].options` array

```

Author: Great feedback, I'll use this list style for future guides.

> ### 1. Select the password recovery link

Reviewer 2: This is what the user will do , not what the developer needs to do.  You seem to have re-written this step to target the user, not the developer. I'd suggest reverting this text back to "Add a forgot password link" etc. and the rest of the text

Author: Let's sync up about this one tomorrow.

Author: Updated based on our conversations.

First, the user selects a password recovery link from the sign-in page. Add a link that points to the password recovery page. An example link named **Forgot your password?** is shown in the following screenshot.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

> ![Screenshot showing a page displaying the sign-in page with a 'Forgot password?' link where users can click to reset their password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-simple-sign-on-screenshot-sign-in-nodejs.png)

Author: I've opened a Jira against the Javascript SDK sample app to change login to sign in: https://oktainc.atlassian.net/browse/OKTA-498205. I was thinking of making a screenshot update after the SDK team updates their app. Would that work?

> ![Screenshot showing a page displaying the sign-in page with a 'Forgot password?' link where users can click to reset their password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-simple-sign-on-screenshot-sign-in-nodejs.png)

Reviewer 2: That's fine Rob. WIll mark this as resolved.

</div>

### 2. Show the password recovery page

Next, show the password recovery page to the user. Create a page that accepts the account's username and includes a **Next** button that starts the recovery flow.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot showing a page displaying the reset password page that has a field to input your password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-screenshot-reset-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 3. Submit username

> The user enters their username on the password recovery page and selects **Next** to start the recovery process.  At this time, call `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`, passing in the username.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user enters their username and clicks **Next** to start the recovery process, call `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`, passing in the username as a parameter.
```

Author: updated.

```javascript
try {
  const transaction = await authClient.idx.recoverPassword({ username });
  handleTransaction({ req, res, next, authClient, transaction });
} catch (error) {
  next(error);
}
```

### 4. Display a list of available authenticators

> `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()` returns a response indicating that the next step is to select an authenticator. Specifically, `IdxTransaction` returns:

Reviewer 2: The way this is written, all three items in the list are given equal importance to the rest of the step, but it is just the options collection that is used. The status and nextStep.name are covered in the first sentence - they indicate that the next step is to select an authenticator, so I would list those two, and then have another sentence which introduces the collection object.

Also, where did IdxTransaction come from? Is the response from recoverPassword an IdxTransction class instance?

Author: I'm not following you on the first part. Let's sync up about that tomorrow. Regarding your last question about the IdxTransaction object, I can make it more clear.

Author: Updated based on our conversation.

> * a `status` of `PENDING`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `status` = `PENDING`
```

Author: Let's talk about his one. = vs "equal to"

Author: updated to =

> * a `nextStep.name` equal to `select-authenticator-authenticate`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `nextStep.name` = `select-authenticator-authenticate`
```

Author: same as above.

Author: updated to =

> * an `option` item with a `value` of `okta_email` in the `nextstep.inputs[n].options` array

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* a collection of available authenticators in `nextstep.inputs` for the user to choose from
```

Author: I wanted to call out that the 'okta_email' item is in the array. Let's talk about this one.

Author: I'm keeping this line but I've updated the proceeding text as discussed.

```javascript
{
  status: "PENDING",
  nextStep: {
    name: "select-authenticator-authenticate",
    inputs: [
      {
        name: "authenticator",
        type: "string",
        options: [
          {
            label: "Email",
            value: "okta_email",
          },
          {
            label: "Phone",
            value: "phone_number",
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

> Using this response, display a list of authenticators to the user. If you've configured your org as described in [Configuration updates](#configuration-updates), email is included in the list of available authenticators.

Reviewer 2: Splitting this out into a note. Your code demonstrates that email is in the collection so the instruction should just be "display it" now. The other sentence is an aside that should go under the image.

```suggestion
Using this response, display a list of authenticators to the user. 

> **Note**: If email is not included in the list of available authenticators, check you've configured your org as described in [Configuration updates](#configuration-updates).
```

Author: The aside makes sense. I'm curious though why you switched the text to using "not". Let's talk about this tomorrow.

Author: updated.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot of a page displaying a list of authenticators including the email authenticator](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-screenshot-select-auth-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 5. Verify identity with the email authenticator

> Next, the user selects and verifies their identity with the email authenticator challenge. The email authenticator supports OTP and magic links, and you can integrate both methods into your application. Learn more about integrating the email authenticator challenge by visiting the [Okta email integration guide](/docs/guides/authenticators-okta-email/nodeexpress/main/#integrate-email-challenge-with-magic-links).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, the user verifies their identity with the email authenticator challenge. The email authenticator supports OTP and magic links, and you can integrate both methods into your application. Learn more about integrating the email authenticator challenge by visiting the [Okta email integration guide](/docs/guides/authenticators-okta-email/nodeexpress/main/#integrate-email-challenge-with-magic-links).
```

Author: updated.

### 6. Display password reset page

> After the user verifies their email, `OktaAuth.idx.proceed()` returns a response indicating that user is allowed to reset their password. Specifically, `IdxTransaction` returns a `status` of `PENDING` and `nextStep.name` equal to `reset-authenticator`.

Reviewer 2: Just to keep this consistent with step 4. Again, don't know where IdxTransaction came from, so suggested an alternative for that, but if you explain it elsewhere, revert that if you like.

```suggestion
After the user verifies their identity, `OktaAuth.idx.proceed()` returns a response indicating that user is allowed to reset their password. Specifically, the response includes:

-  `status` = `PENDING`
-  `nextStep.name` = `reset-authenticator`

```

Author: Updated formatting, though lets talk about "=" vs "equal to"

Author: rewrote into a sentence.

```javascript
{
  status: "PENDING",
  nextStep: {
    name: "reset-authenticator",
    inputs: [
      {
        name: "password",
        label: "New password",
        secret: true,
        type: "string",
        required: true,
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

> Using this response, create a password reset page that allows the user to enter their new password.

Reviewer 2: You're not using the response at all to create the page. Just taking the cue that it should be made.

```suggestion
Create a password reset page that allows the user to enter their new password.
```

Author: In regards to the sample app, your right. I placed "Using this response" because the response includes content to create the New password label. Let's talk about this one, but I'm okay with removing it.

Author: updated.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot of a page allowing the user to enter their new password](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-screenshot-set-password-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 7. Submit the new password

> Next, the user enters and submits their new password. Send the new password to `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user submits their new password, pass it as a parameter to `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`.
```

Author: updated.

```javascript
  const authClient = getAuthClient(req);
  const transaction = await authClient.idx.recoverPassword({ password });
  handleTransaction({ req, res, next, authClient, transaction });
```

>**Note:** Review the complete use of `idx.recoverPassword` in the [Okta Auth JS SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js/blob/master/docs/idx.md#idxrecoverpassword).

> If the call to `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()` is successful, `IdxTransaction` returns a `status` of `SUCCESS` along with Id and access tokens. The password reset is now complete and you can redirect the user to the default home page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the call to `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()` returns a `status` of `SUCCESS`, the response will also include ID and access tokens. The password reset is now complete and you can redirect the user to the default home page.
```

Author: updated.

### 1. Start the password recovery flow

> First, add a link that allows the user to submit their username to begin the password recovery flow. The following example shows a **Forgot your password?** link which redirects the user to the password recovery page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a link that allows the user to submit their username to begin the password recovery flow. The following example shows a **Forgot your password?** link which redirects the user to the password recovery page.
```

Author: Updated.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot showing a page displaying the sign-in page with a 'Forgot password?' link where users can click to reset their password.](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-simple-sign-on-screenshot-sign-in-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 2. Show the password recovery page

> Next, build a password recovery page that allows the user to enter their account's username. Include a **Next** button that submits this username to the SDK when selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, build a password recovery page that allows the user to enter their account's username or email. Include a **Next** button that submits this username to the SDK when selected.
```

### 6. Display password reset page

After the user verifies their identity using the email authenticator, `OktaAuth.idx.proceed()` returns an `IdxTransaction` indicating:

* The sign-in `status` is in the `PENDING` state.
* The next step is to reset the user's password, that is, `nextStep.name` = `reset-authenticator`.

```javascript
{
  status: "PENDING",
  nextStep: {
    name: "reset-authenticator",
    inputs: [
      {
        name: "password",
        label: "New password",
        secret: true,
        type: "string",
        required: true,
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Create a password reset page that allows the user to enter their new password.

<div class="common-image-format bordered-image">

![Screenshot of a page allowing the user to enter their new password](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-pwd-recovery-screenshot-set-password-nodejs.png)

</div>

### 7. Submit the new password

> When the user submits their new password, pass it as a parameter to `OktaAuth.idx.recoverPassword()`.

Reviewer 2: I think you need to include this code you have deleted and note that the two password fields should contain the same value before passing the password to Okta. If you don't, you're effectively ignoring the "Reneter password" box and why its there.
